Again, my name is Mark Malone.
My email is down at the
bottom of this presentation,
so please capture it and send me
email all about the incredibly
exciting internal applications
that you guys are building,
workflow apps, all sorts of things.
I'm always interested in
internal implementations.
The app store has got
plenty of things on it,
but I think the in-house applications
are the ones that are really exciting.
So let me know how we're doing
and how you're doing with how
you're deploying applications.
So I'm going to take a bit of
a romp through the SDK and it's
basically my swag based on what
I think in-house application
developers are interested in doing.
I used to do a lot of development
within large organizations
before I came to work at Apple,
which is a large organization as well.
So I figure I kind of know my
way through here and you can
always tell me that I'm wrong.
Here's basically the
list that I came up with.
So a little bit on architecture,
development,
and then I'm going to talk a little
bit about the application itself.
Here's a little bit on architecture,
development,
and then I'm going to talk a little
bit about the application itself.
Here's a little bit on architecture,
development,
and then I'm going to talk a little
bit about the application itself.
bit on architecture.
Development platforms,
there are two for iPhone.
Displaying web content,
in-house applications
typically show web content.
We love the browser.
We love the deployment mechanism.
We've got all these existing
assets already that we display
within web browsers on the desktop.
Calling a web service,
sort of stepping back from
the presentation piece.
Talk a little bit about web
services support on iPhone.
Parsing XML, if I'm calling web services
then XML matters to me.
If I've got a native application,
how do I write data locally?
What are the formats that I can use
to go and write it in the classes?
Security services associated with
iPhone SDK based applications,
so where can I store
passwords and certificates,
those kinds of things.
Where do I store it?
How do I write it?
And then finally deploying
iPhone applications,
so sort of soup to nuts.
Sound good?
Yay, all
Let's go on,
let's begin with architecture,
so I can't have a decent presentation
without talking a little bit
about the architecture of iPhone,
especially since it carries over so much
from the desktop environment of Mac OS X.
So at the baseline,
we've got a standard Unix kernel,
something that's been tuned so that
it works well on these mobile devices.
And so what you get with
Unix is you get stability,
something that's highly tested,
you also get a lot of POSIX compliant
capability that you can actually
leverage within your application.
On top of that,
we create a stack called core frameworks.
The core frameworks are our
typical data types that we
support in native applications.
There are CF network code,
those things at a low level that
you're probably familiar with already
if you've ever built anything for a
machine or a device running Mac OS X.
On top of that, we've provided a stack
that's great at displaying.
Playing media content, rich media,
so animated graphics, OpenGL,
core animation,
those kinds of things that folks
are used to seeing on our desktop,
playing back video, stereo audio,
recording audio as well,
nice rich media stack at that level.
On top of that,
we've got the Cocoa Touch frameworks.
These are the classes that you're
going to use to provide user interface,
interaction between your
application logic and the user who
is actually tapping on the screen.
So, you're tapping around,
interacting with your application.
So that's all within
the Cocoa Touch layer.
And then in comes your
application and sits on top of it.
So although I've presented it as
a typical stacked architecture,
the reality is an application
can reach down to just about any
place that it wants to within
the frameworks as long as they're
publicly exposed APIs to get to those.
So if you want to open a BSD socket,
go to town, you can do that.
You can use the high level
networking classes as well.
But if you're more comfortable
down at the Unix level,
there's a lot of functionality
that you get just through the SDK.
So your application sits on top
and it sits in sort of a sandbox.
A lot of folks are familiar with
web-based sandboxes and the Safari on
iPhone lives in its own sandbox as well.
So it can pull content
from a particular domain.
It can write cookies.
But it doesn't have willy-nilly
access to the file system.
It can't go and read and upload files.
So it's a very sort of user
interaction based model.
And a lot of folks are used to this when
they're doing browser-based applications.
Same sort of implementation on iPhone.
If you're building an application
that runs within the Safari browser,
it sits in a sandbox.
Now it can access the various
applications or some of the
various applications on iPhone.
And the way that it does
it is through web APIs.
So I can go and I can launch a mail,
a blank mail message,
have it pre-filled with a file,
with the to, the body, the subject,
those kinds of things.
Just based on within my web
content having a mail to
URL within the web content.
Same thing with the phone.
If I want to go and present a phone
number to the user for them to dial,
I can have a tell
URL within my web content.
So you see we've got this sort
of web API layer there that you
as a web developer need to go
through in order to access those
things outside of your sandbox.
And it's very much
like the desktop model.
There's a lot of information.
There's a lot of integration
you've got on the desktop
through these same sort of APIs.
[Transcript missing]
So those are development platforms.
Let's talk a little bit
while we're on this web rant
about displaying web content.
So just at the baseline,
if you've got an in-house application
that looks great in Safari and iPhone,
then odds are great that
it's going to look... Sorry,
looks great in Safari on the desktop,
odds are great that it's going to
look great in Safari and iPhone.
We've done our best to try to take
you out of the loop when it comes to
making the content look good on iPhone.
So without a lot of
tweaking on the back end,
it should display fine.
It should be interactive.
It should have all the
capability that it had before.
There are obviously some caveats.
Gesundheit.
So deploying an application
via the browser,
what do you get on iPhone?
You get the same sort of compatibility
that you would expect with Safari on Mac,
Safari on Windows.
Same sort of desktop capability,
but in a portable platform.
We think we've got the best
implementation of the W3C standards.
So if you care about a standards-based
implementation of DOM or CSS,
or ECMAScript,
then we think we've got one of
the best implementations and we
love to gather bugs about where we
might be off-base in this statement
that we think we're the best.
So we've got a great
implementation there for standards,
but we also know that there's
a web reality out there.
There's a myriad of websites that
perhaps you created within your
organization or that folks get to,
your users get to,
just through trolling the web that
weren't built with standards in mind.
They were code-generated for IE only,
or it was code-generated for IE only,
or it was code-generated for Netscape,
or it was generated out
of some sort of server,
or, you know what, it was published just
because it worked in IE,
and that's fine.
So the browser is full of all sorts
of optimization technology that we
go through in order to make sure that
we don't necessarily stumble over
content that's not standards-based.
So the caveat is, the biggest caveat is
there's no plug-in support.
So perhaps you've got
Flash on your internal app,
perhaps you've got Java applets.
Maybe you've got content in some sort
of MIME type that requires a plug-in,
perhaps Windows Media or
something like that.
Then we're not gonna support that.
So we support standards code,
we support HTML,
we support pretty much the web reality
from a pretty grand perspective.
But when it comes to plug-in support,
we don't have a plug-in model
in the browser on iPhone
like we do on the desktop.
So that's sort of the number
one thing that you need to do
if you're migrating an app from
the desktop browser to iPhone,
is make sure that there
aren't any plug-ins in there.
So what do you get that's new and sexy?
Well, CSS visual effects.
I mentioned that that capability
was there on iPhone as sort of
a nice partner to core animation
for a native-based application.
And it's just pure CSS syntax
for doing animation on screen.
So transformations,
moving objects around on a
page with only using CSS,
no JavaScript necessary.
A lot of folks wrote iPhone
applications based on web
technology and used JavaScript in
order to be moving divs around.
within a page, very clunky.
The CSS stuff is just incredibly fast,
tuned for the device,
and pretty darned groundbreaking as well.
So transforms,
we've got support for transitions.
So again, pure web interface,
but it's got the same sort of transition
speed capability that you would
expect from a native application.
Animation as well,
here's a web template that's in Dashcode
that does that same rotation that
you would see in the stocks widget,
or in the weather widget.
You get that same capability
just by using CSS animation.
Or you can come up with something
that's completely out of the box.
You can mix and match these
technologies to create an experience
that's still pure web-based,
but something that your users would never
think this is a web-based application,
just by using a combination of these.
So the CSS visual effects are incredible.
I mentioned they're hardware accelerated
because you definitely want to
use this if you've got any sort
of animation that you're providing
within your web-based interface.
And that the JavaScript way of sliding in
divs is definitely the clunky way to go.
Public specification for the CSS visual
effects is available via webkit.org.
Webkit.org is the open source repository
of the engine underneath Safari on
iPhone as well as Safari on all the
other platforms that you see Safari.
So you can go and check out
the specifications there.
Our goal is to push CSS visual effects
to be part of the CSS3 specification.
We want to make sure that other
user agent vendors besides us
are pushing this technology.
So we're definitely keen to make sure
Firefox as well as IE implement these.
And as a result,
the specs are out there in the public.
[Transcript missing]
Loading code from the
application bundle just as easy.
The key here is you need to find a
path down to your application bundle.
Your application bundle is
basically that folder of data,
your resources folder that you
added to your native application.
You need to build a path to that
and then based on that path you
can load it into the view as well.
So here I'm grabbing the main bundle.
I'm building a path to a directory.
My web route that I just dragged
into my resources directory,
I called it local hostess.
Within local hostess
is an index.html file.
That's the file I want to go
and load into my web view.
So here's the full path that you
get as a result of that call.
You can see that you definitely
don't want to go and hard
code any of these paths.
There's a unique application
signature there but you can see it
all resolves down to that index.html.
Throw that into an NSURL.
Create a request, tell the web view to go
and load the request,
boom.
All that content, just like the web route
was sitting on the server,
is now loaded from within my
native application bundle.
I can do the same thing
from the file system,
the path just points to a file system
URL instead of an application bundle.
So let's talk a little bit about
that interaction between the UI web
view and native back and forth.
So if I want to execute
JavaScript from native code,
within my native application
I want to have something
happen within the UI web view.
There's some JavaScript functions
that are sitting in there.
All I need to do is create
a string that contains that
JavaScript function that I want to call.
So again, build up an NSString.
Here I'm going to tell my
UI web view to display a common
JavaScript alert to the user.
So I'm saying window.alert,
throwing some text in there
to present to the user.
And then I call the UI WebView method
passing that string.
And there's a long function name here,
string by evaluating
JavaScript from string.
Just pass in that string.
And as a result, that alert's going to be
presented within the context of
the web content being displayed.
Really straightforward.
I can have any sort of
get element by ID call.
I could say window.location.href equals,
tell it to navigate.
Any of that JavaScript that
you're used to calling within
the context of the web page,
you can build up a string of
that and call it just like that.
Just by passing it through
this particular native
function to the view itself.
Key is to only inspect the
DOM after the web view is loaded.
So I mentioned that there's
this web view did finish load
delegate that's called after the
UI web view is completely loaded.
Once it's completely loaded
then the DOM is fully intact.
You can make any sorts of
calls that you want to the
content that's sitting in there.
Until this particular method is called,
you don't want to call any
JavaScript because it's not fully
there yet and so you might not get
the results that you were expecting.
So only call it after it's been loaded.
Now let's go the other way.
Let's go and call into native
based on the user doing something
within the context of UI web view.
So the way that we do that is we take
advantage of the fact that we've got
a delegate within the UI web view
that gets called every time UI web
view has been asked to load content.
So if I tell a UI web view to go
and load content from the web,
this particular delegate
function is called and it
should start load with request.
So my web view is being asked
to load content from the web.
So I'm going to call it every time UI web
view has been asked to load content.
So if I tell a UI web view to go
and load content from the web,
this particular delegate
function is called and it
should start load with request.
So my web view is being asked
to load content from the web.
So I'm going to call it after
the user doing something within
the context of UI web view has
been asked to load content.
So the way that we do that is we take
advantage of the fact that this thing
is being called every single time
and trick it to call our own scheme,
our own destination.
So instead of having content
like a link or a button within
my web context that calls,
that points to HTTP colon
my function up in the cloud,
I would call it every single time.
So I would come up with my own scheme
and it would be like my app colon slash
slash and then a whole chunk of data.
So I know that my should start load
request is going to get called.
Based on any sort of navigation,
so here's a little snippet.
I've got a button element that's
sitting within a piece of web
content and a JavaScript function
and an unclick handler there.
My delegate gets called any time
that UI WebView is asked to go
somewhere to load a request.
So I say window.location which
tells the view to go and load
some content and instead of
having it point to the public web,
I use my own scheme.
So I put my app colon and
then some raw data there.
That's the data that I want
to pass from the web context
down into the native context.
So as a result of that particular
function getting called,
I can look at the scheme and
if it's a scheme that I own,
it's something that I wanted
to trigger from my web context,
I can grab it and do
something interesting.
If it's an HTTP scheme or
it's something that I know the
browser just knows how to handle,
then I can just let
the browser handle it.
I can just let it pass
through and not grab it.
So that's the mechanism for
communicating between the two.
We've got a class on the desktop,
Mac OS X desktop called WebKit.
UI WebView is quite a bit different
from WebKit even though there's overlap
from some of the API perspectives.
You definitely don't want to leave
here thinking that there's an
equivalent API to WebKit on iPhone.
The web views are
significantly different.
So a web view is significantly
different from a UI web view.
But this little mechanism,
this little trickery allows you
to talk from one to the other.
All right,
so that's displaying web content,
all the different
document types we support,
the standards-based content as
well as some manipulation between
the two different architectures.
Let's talk a little bit
about calling web services.
There's two standards that
I certainly know about.
One is SOAP and the other one is REST.
So I'm gonna talk a little
bit about each one of them.
I'm gonna talk less about one
and you can probably guess which
one I'm gonna talk less about.
Let's start with it.
It's called SOAP.
Folks that aren't used to seeing
any sort of SOAP APIs or even
know what I'm talking about,
I've got a little diagram.
It's basically a client server call,
right?
You've got the client, that's the iPhone.
Most SOAP calls are a post.
SOAP calls are a post because of the
envelope associated with the SOAP method.
So client, be it iPhone or whatever,
creates an XML envelope,
makes an HTTP post to a service.
The server then responds with
a SOAP envelope that's got
the XML content within it.
And this is what a typical
SOAP request looks like.
It's got HTTP headers associated with it.
It's got this thing called
the SOAP envelope that sits
around the particular call.
And then lo and behold,
in the middle here is this
little piece of functionality.
This is the actual data that we're
sending back and forth to the server.
That's got basically the unique
characteristics of this call.
SOAP's a really nice technology
because it allows an abstraction.
It's sort of like Corba for the web.
From my perspective,
it provides a nice abstraction
between various interfaces.
That's a SOAP request.
This is what a SOAP response looks like.
Again, typical HTV headers
that you would expect.
Again, the SOAP envelope.
And then in the middle there is
the result of that particular
function call that I made.
So a lot of folks think that SOAP is
something that's a little overly verbose.
There is a lot of content here,
but you do get some nice
retrospection capability and
other things out of using SOAP.
So what do we have on the iPhone?
Well, anybody that's used to building
Macintosh applications will see that
we've got a huge web services star set
of frameworks and such on the desktop.
None of that stuff is over on the iPhone.
So from a SOAP perspective,
you can either build and
parse SOAP manually using the
XML classes that we've got.
But there's also some interesting
third party libraries out there
that you might wanna take a look at.
The first one is GSOAP out
of Florida State University,
and the second one is Access2
from the Apache Foundation.
So both of these are great
libraries for making SOAP calls.
Access2 is particularly
useful if you love WSDL.
So if you love WSDL,
then Access2 supports it.
GSOAP does not,
but both of them work fine for
making SOAP based calls on iPhone.
Compile them into your application.
Both have generous legal agreements
so that it's easy for you to
distribute it without begging
for permission out of these guys.
So this is the SOAP implementation
that you can use if you've got
SOAP within your environment.
If you're using a RESTful
type of application,
you can use RESTful technology,
something on the back
end that's more RESTful.
Well, you've got the same sort of
client server model where you're
making these web services calls.
However,
RESTful calls are typically GETs, right?
A little less heavy.
And the responses are XML, right?
There isn't a SOAP envelope
going in either direction.
It's really up to the user to
define what those interfaces are.
So still client server.
This is a typical RESTful request, right?
It's a URL.
It's got the destination.
It's got the object.
It's got the method name.
And it's got any parameters
just sitting right on it.
That's why it's typically a GET request.
So this is a RESTful request,
RESTful responses.
Sky's the limit, right?
It's up to the server to define
what kind of XML comes back
so it's all sorts of content,
right?
There isn't a defined DTD like
there is in the SOAP world for
these kinds of transactions.
So this is an HTTP response.
So there's three core networking
classes that you're going to use to
make these kinds of calls on iPhones.
On iPhone.
You're going to use
them all over the place.
The first one, NSURL,
I already mentioned,
you're going to use that for
loading content into a UI web view.
Anytime you want to go and
access any sort of web service,
you're going to use the same
high-level class to go and reference
a service that's sitting in the cloud.
As I showed for the UI web view example,
it supports file-based,
so something sitting locally
as well as cloud-based URLs.
And it's really a nice class to
use even though it just basically
holds a string because you can go
and dissect the parts of a URL.
So if you want to ask a URL object
for its port or for its path,
its query string, all sorts of things,
you've got high-level access there.
Most of our classes,
our networking classes require an
NSURL object as one of the parameters.
Second, one that you're going to use
most often is NSURL request.
That's encapsulating the
payload of a request.
Typically,
a GET request is what you would
get if you're using NSURL request.
If you want to do a post
to a RESTful service,
then you're going to use
NSMutable URL request.
When you're using the
Mutable URL request,
you've got access to all
the parts of the body.
So you can put in your own headers.
You can set the body if you'd like.
So you can set the body if you'd like.
You can do multi-part uploads if
you're doing basic form completion.
You can embed your own
cookies within the posts,
all sorts of things.
This is the class that you would use.
One nice thing about it is
it gives you great control
over locally cached content.
So you can create an issue or a request
and you can provide arguments to it
that indicate whether it's okay or
not to use content that was previously
fetched from the same destination.
And there's a shared cookie store.
So any cookies that I may have retrieved
through a session interaction over on
the Safari browser side are available
to me within a native application
where I'm using these classes.
So as long as the cookies
came from the same domain,
once I'm over in a native application,
those cookies are going to be posted with
each one of the posts to that same domain
when I'm using these native classes.
So it allows you to build something
where you can share session information,
all sorts of things,
just by jumping between the two.
Final class that you're going
to use is NSURL connection.
And this does the management of the
communication with the back end.
It's that final piece when
it's time to go and send that
request up to the server.
So it supports synchronous as well
as asynchronous loading of content.
So you could block your user interface,
you can block your thread while
you're going and pulling down
data if you want to do that.
You probably shouldn't.
There's a slew of callbacks
associated with redirects,
which is nice,
especially if you're building an
application that you want to be secure.
If you tell your application
to point to somewhere in the
cloud and the cloud says,
no, you know what,
the data's really over here.
It'd be nice to know within your
application that somebody's telling
you to go somewhere other than
where the data really does reside.
So this particular class has a
callback associated with it where
it will say to your application,
hey, you know, the server says you should
go over here for the content.
You've got the capability
to look at that URL and say,
no, I don't want to go to this
particular site anymore.
Something's been breached.
There's a man in the middle
or something going on here.
There's also callbacks for
authentication challenges.
We'll handle all the sort of standard
authentication challenges that occur.
So if there's a certificate sitting
on a server through which you're
trying to talk to a particular web
servers and that certificate we have
a route within our search store,
we'll take care of that
authentication challenge.
That's already handled.
But if we hit a challenge,
there's a server up there that
we can't validate or somebody
on the server side is trying to
authenticate through another mechanism.
We've got a callback there.
We'll call back to your
application and say,
okay, there's a challenge here.
We don't know how to handle.
How do you want to go?
And so people take advantage of
those callbacks in order to go and
implement their own authentication
mechanisms within their network.
And so that's something that we're
trying to do in our native application.
The final piece within NSURL connection
is you've got even more granular
control over caching capabilities.
So there's a final class that
I talk about but is not available,
you shouldn't use.
It's called NSURL download.
It's actually in the documentation.
It works in the simulator but once
you move your code over to the
iPhone itself or an iPod touch,
it doesn't work.
So it's fairly useful except it does
something that we don't want a lot of
users doing and that's writing to disk.
This particular class,
all you do is you point it
to a URL in the cloud and you
get a file as a result of it.
We want to try to make
it a little bit harder,
a little more intentional for
people writing to flash-based
memory on these devices.
So those are the three primary
classes and the one not to use.
A little graphic here for calling a
particular web service in the cloud.
The call is going to be made
based on my native application.
Within my native application,
I've created my own class
called My Data Grabber.
This is the guy that's going to be in
charge of talking to the data grabber
and he's going to be talking to my
web service up there in the cloud.
So I instantiate my data grabber.
First thing I'm going to do to
go and talk to my service in the
cloud is create this NSURL object,
right?
It contains a string that
points to my web service.
Next thing I'm going to do is
create an NSURL request passing in
that URL as one of the arguments.
And then the third step is to
create this NSURL connection object
and pass it the request object in.
And I'm going to pass in a reference
to my class because my class is going
to want to hear about interesting
things that are happening with this
particular communication to the server.
So once I go and I call this
particular method with this
NSURL connection instantiation,
a call is made up to the server pointing
to that particular URL that was provided.
The get goes up and then the data
comes back down from the server.
Something to keep in mind is that
the data is not necessarily going
to come back in one fell swoop.
It might be packed up by
the server and sent in a,
in a bulk.
And each time we get a
chunk of data from the user,
this particular method is going
to get called on the delegate,
the listener that cares
about this communication.
It's going to call did receive data.
Data is going to be
passed as an argument.
It's going to get called each time
I get a buffer of data from the server.
So you're going to want to go and
concatenate that data structure
up within your native application
until the transaction is complete.
And the way that you know the transaction
is complete is connect to the server.
And then you're going to want
to wait until the connection
did finish loading is called.
Now all of that data that
I received can be thrown
together and maybe it's an image,
I can present it,
maybe it's a chunk of XML,
I can throw it to a parser and parse it.
So you want to wait until that
particular method is called,
then you're good to go with the
So those are the core classes.
The examples that we've got that take
advantage of these are reachability,
very useful to determining if
a particular URL is available.
It's important to find out if a URL is
available before you make the call.
And the nice thing about reachability
is you can detect whether it's going
to be accessible via a Wi-Fi connection
or a cellular connection.
So that's pretty useful.
Ytap and Bonjour Web both take
advantage of these three core classes.
And URL cache is particularly
interesting for looking at the
caching mechanism associated
with the various network calls.
So that's calling web services.
Web services typically respond
with some sort of XML content.
We've got a couple open source
libraries that we provide at
the bottom layer on iPhone.
They're also on the desktop.
The first one is libxml2.
So if you want C-based access
to parsing XML content,
then you've got it just
through the libxml2 library.
We've also got libxslt on
iPhone and iPod Touch as well.
So if you're doing any
sort of XML transformations
based on XML style sheets,
then you can leverage this library
to perform those transformations.
The Safari browser as well as the
UI web view will take any XML content
that's being presented and transform
it on its own without you having
to use this library as long as it
includes an XML style sheet within it.
So you don't necessarily need to go and
use this library if you're just taking
XML content and presenting it as HTML,
for example, within a UI web view
or within the browser.
So these are the two low level
libraries that you have access to.
They're open source, so the documentation
is open source as well.
So it's xmlsoft.org.
There's examples up there as
well as the documentation,
so take a look at that.
We've got a high level XML support
class built into iPhone as well.
So at a higher level
on top of that XML lib,
we provide an NSXML parser.
And what this is is a single pass parser,
no DOM.
So you don't have access to functions
in order to query for particular nodes.
It's all about sort of top down.
Let me walk through all of your XML and
then provide you callbacks each time
I hit elements within the XML itself.
Single pass.
So it's delegate based.
And you basically get a callback
within your class that responds to
the NSXML parser delegate methods
for each time an open element
is found within the content.
It calls didStartElement,
passes a dictionary of the attributes
for the particular open element.
There's a callback each time we
find content within an element
between a begin and end tag.
And that's foundCharacters.
FoundCharacters is buffer based as well.
So you want to buffer up any
string that's returned because that
could be called multiple times.
And it'll be called multiple times
until the close element is reached
for any item within your XML.
And when a close element is reached,
didEndElement is the method that's
called in your parser delegate.
Once the didElement function is called,
all your concatenated string is
ready for presentation or ready
for use within your application.
SDK samples, Seismic XML,
best example out there
for using NSXML parser.
It does it in a asynchronous mechanism,
it asynchronously loads a table as well.
So it's a pretty useful example
for all sorts of things,
spawning threads, parsing XML,
and presenting data in a
table in a threaded manner.
While we're talking
about high level support,
one thing that you should think
about is P-List formatted XML.
If you own the back end
and you own the structure,
the DTD of the XML content that
you're pushing down to the clients,
you might consider putting
it in P-List format.
P-List DTD is something that we use all
over the Macintosh as well as iPhone
for holding configuration information.
It's basically our default text file
format for configuration information and
preferences and those kinds of things.
So if you own the back end and you
can create your XML in this particular
format using this particular DTD,
then you get a big bang for it.
So this is what P-List
formatted XML looks like.
You can see it's got a
limited set of entities,
so things like dict,
therefore dictionary objects,
there's strings,
you also see key value pairs,
there's array types in here.
So it's a fixed set of entities.
if you can live within this
particular environment what you get
is very easily marshaled data types.
Basically,
we'll parse through P list formatted
XML and do the conversion for you to data
types that are native on iPhone itself.
So, anytime we hit a string element
we'll convert it to an NSString.
An array will become an NSArray.
A dict will become an
NSDictionary along with all its
keys and the values within it.
Bool and its number and its
data and its date accordingly.
So, it's really easy way to go
and do the marshaling for a
lot of different data types.
So, you don't have to do all the
string conversion on your own.
So, easily loaded,
NSDictionary class can take
PList formatted XML directly.
So if you've made a web service call,
it's come down as PList formatted XML.
You can instantiate an NSDictionary class
directly with the contents of a file,
with the contents of a URL,
the contents of a data buffer
and you get a dictionary
object out of it as a result.
The dictionary object then you've got
very much like a DOM implementation
where you can ask it for its keys,
you can ask for the objects
associated with keys.
It's a really nice implementation
and really easy to go and hook up to
things like table views and picker
selectors and those kinds of things
within the iPhone user interface.
So, and they're very fast.
I mean we use these file
formats all over the place.
And so the code that we've
written is highly optimized for
parsing this kind of content.
So I've got an example where I've loaded
my entire iTunes dictionary into a,
a P list into an NSDictionary.
And it loads it incredibly fast.
It navigates the keys incredibly fast.
And it's a huge file.
So it's, it's something you should
definitely take a look at.
If you've never seen any of these files
or you want a high level application to
create your own P list formatted XML.
There's a property list editor
application that's on every Macintosh.
Allows you to interactively
go and create these files,
choose data types associated with fields.
And then you can generate an
XML file as a result of using
this app and take a look at the,
the data that it's formatted.
So give that a whirl if
you haven't seen it before.
That's parsing XML,
pretty straightforward.
Moving on to saving data locally.
I mentioned that web applications as well
as native applications live in a sandbox.
Well, you've got the ability to
write files to that sandbox.
You can read files from
that sandbox as well,
those ones that you've written.
One thing that folks want to do
is deploy multiple applications.
Well, there's some restrictions there.
Multiple applications can
read and write to a sandbox.
However, they can't read and write
to each other's sandboxes.
The goal is to provide a completely
secure environment where native
applications can't just troll across
the file system and read willy-nilly.
What that means is from an
application perspective,
you can't read outside of
your particular area as well,
even if you own both of
the applications and boy,
it sure would be great to
share the data between the two.
If you do own application one and you
do own application two and you want
to share the data between the two,
there's other mechanisms.
There's the cloud that's there.
If I've got content that I want
to share between two applications,
I can stick it in the cloud.
My model can exist in the cloud and
both of these applications can access
that same data because it's up there.
It's centrally located.
These are always connected devices or at
least most of the time connected devices.
If I need to transfer information,
I can do it through the cloud.
Another mechanism that we've got
is basically an open URL call.
Where one application says, "Hey,
I've got a bunch of data and I want to
send it to another application." He just
throws it up to the operating system.
The operating system
catches that data and says,
"I know who cares about this kind
of stuff," and then launches the
second application and tells it
to go ahead and load the data.
That's all through an open URL mechanism.
The way that you configure your
application to receive this catch
or to receive this tossed data
is by modifying your Info.plist,
going to the URL types,
specifying a URL scheme within there.
That scheme is the URL type that you
care about within your application.
Now any time a web-based application
or a native application calls a
URL that begins with that scheme,
in this example it's myapp2,
your application is going to
get launched and the rest of the
query string is going to be passed
to your particular application.
I've got an example of what it
looks like in just a second.
The key here is that you want to
make sure that your scheme is unique.
There's a lot of different applications
that might want to go and implement
this sort of data passing mechanism.
You want to make sure that yours
is unique and the best way to
do that is to define your scheme
as your application signature.
Application signatures are
guaranteed to be unique for any
application that's distributed.
If you use the same URL scheme
as your application signature,
then you're going to have
something that's inherently unique.
You also want to make sure that you
don't use any of the schemes that are
supported by built-in applications.
Don't say that your application
can automatically handle HTTP or
automatically handle FTP or SMS or
any of those other things that we
do within the native applications
because it's going to be our
application that's called every time.
HTTP is going to launch Safari.
Mailto scheme is going to
launch the mail application.
SMS is going to launch
the SMS application.
Those are the examples to stay away from.
Come up with something of your own.
Come up with something that's unique.
That's key.
So here's an example.
I've got application one,
wants to send some data
over to application two.
So I create this URL string
and have the scheme in it,
as well as a bucket of data,
this text data.
I know that application two
responds to that particular scheme,
my app two.
So I build up this URL.
Then I call open URL.
This is a method on the application,
the shared application object.
And I pass in that URL,
so I'm passing in that string
myapp2 and then some data.
And as a result of me calling that
particular application method,
my application is dropped,
application 2 is launched,
and then the handle open URL method
is called on application 2.
And that URL is passed in,
so the myapp2:text data is
passed to application 2 through
this particular mechanism.
One thing that you want to remember when
you're implementing this in your own
application is URLs can get launched
by a whole slew of different things,
right?
It can be any sort of native application
can decide to call your application
scheme just because it wants to,
right?
I could put a URL on a web page and surf
to that web page within Safari on iPhone.
And if it's got a link in it
that's got your scheme on it,
you can put that URL on it.
If the user taps on it,
we're going to launch your
application and pass it the data.
So you want to be very cognizant
of the fact that this scheme
can get called by other people,
other applications,
random places on the web.
So come up with a unique way of
securing your own data communication
between your applications or your
services where you're going to
go and take advantage of this.
Don't just take whatever string
that you get from the wild
and throw it into a database,
you know.
It's a great mechanism
for doing buffer overflow.
It's a great way to get the
data that you're going to be
using to your application.
So look at the data that comes in,
come up with a convention
for how that data is going to
be passed to keep it secure.
You might even encrypt the data that's
sitting there on the string when you
pass it and only your native application,
the one that receives it,
knows actually how to decrypt it.
And then anything that it doesn't know,
your application is going to
get launched but you're going
to just kick it off and say,
"I don't want to talk to any
of this data." All right,
so there's ways around it.
So that's the mechanism for
passing data back and forth.
Process the architecture.
So that's the arguments
within the URL again.
Just be very cautious about
how you process those arguments
because they could come in from
a whole bunch of different ways.
LaunchMe is probably the only
sample that we've got in the
SDK that shows you how to do this.
Basically, it's something that a native
application you build,
you install,
tells you to go over to Safari,
type launchme:/ and then some text.
Once you load it in the browser,
it goes and loads the
native application and says,
"Hey,
it worked." So a nice thing about it
though is it shows you what you need
to put within the info.p list in order
to respond to these types of URLs.
So core file classes that you're going
to use in order to go read and write.
First is NSFileManager.
You'll use this class for all
sorts of operations associated with
managing files and directories,
setting the various bits, permissions,
those kinds of things on
files and directories,
determining whether files exist
or not as well as creating them.
You'll use an NSFileHandle class all
over the place to read and write.
So anytime you've got a file sitting
in the file--within the file system,
NSFileHandle is the class you'll
use to actually read and seek and
flush and all sorts of things there.
So these are the two primary classes.
You definitely want to
avoid hard-coded paths,
especially if you're going to be
talking to any of the folders that
you have permissions to talk to.
The way you do it is through the
NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains
JavaScript function.
It's JavaScript function, C function.
This C function allows you to
request from the OS a path to your
documents directory if you pass in
the NSDocumentDirectory constant.
You could also pass in
other constants as well,
saying, "Oh,
I want the temp directory," or
"I want the caches directory."
You can ask for those,
but you have to ask through
this particular C function and
we'll build up a path to that
particular resource for you,
to that particular folder.
So use that before you go and write.
So here I've got an example
using those classes.
So I'm going to write a file
called "myfile.txt." And then
I get a file handled to the class,
that saved file,
and then I use the file handle to
do all my writing synchronization
as well as closing in the file,
reading, those kinds of things.
So straightforward process.
The key is that you definitely
want to use the C function for
determining where to--where your
particular directories reside.
All right, so while we're writing files,
we can also write out
SQLite files as well.
We've got a SQLite
implementation on iPhone,
much like on the desktop,
and it's LibSQL version 3.
So I can write files that
conform to my own file format,
or I could write out database
files just using LibSQL.
SQL92 with caveats,
so if you're used to writing typical SQL,
then there's a good chance that you can
shoot the same sort of SQL to SQLite.
It supports things like
transactions and triggers and views.
Views are read-only, however,
and supports common data
types including integers,
reels, texts and blobs.
So there's a nice SQLite API for
writing out these various types.
You could write out objects that
you've got in memory as well.
You can use the blob field for holding
all sorts of content including anything
that you've got sitting in memory.
Things that are in memory,
classes that you've
instantiated on your own.
As long as you've got them in your own,
as long as they conform
to the NSArchiver,
NSCoding implementations,
then you can serialize those and
throw them into the database as well.
So LibSQL version 3,
files that you create using the
APIs in a native application on iPhone,
those same files can be opened
anywhere that SQLite is used.
It creates the same sort
of SQLite compliant files.
It's an open source library, LibSQL,
so the documentation is open source,
SQLite.org, lots of great examples there.
And we've got an SDK sample called
SQLite Booklist that does reading and
writing of records to a SQLite database.
It's got a great implementation where
it takes the stub of the database
that it's going to use for all its
transactions out of its bundle,
writes it to the local file system
where it's got write capability,
and then uses it for each additional
write that you might want to use.
So it's a particularly good example.
And the URL cache example
uses it to store data as well.
So those are some good samples
if you're interested in saving
data that's SQLite based.
As long as your writing files out,
it's good to see the results,
the fruits of your labor,
and you can do that within the Organizer.
You don't necessarily need to write
something that reads all the stuff you
just wrote out just to validate that
it's actually successful at writing.
You can open up the Organizer
window within Xcode.
You'll see all of your in-house
applications listed down here,
and if you rotate the little
triangle associated with
your particular application,
you'll see an application
data element there.
Click on the little down arrow,
and what you'll get is a prompt to
save your entire documents directory
somewhere within the operating system.
You'll be prompted to save this folder,
so you know, stick it on your desktop,
stick it wherever you want,
and then what you get within the
Organizer view is the hierarchy of
those documents that you just wrote out.
So this is my image cloud sample
that goes and hits a bunch
of images up in the cloud,
writes them out to the local file system.
You'll see on the left-hand side
I've just selected one of the images.
Xcode will present what it can.
If it needs to be,
it can be sent to the local file system.
And then you can see what it can,
if it knows the file types.
If they're text types,
it'll show it in there as well.
Of course,
that directory is still sitting
somewhere with my file system as well,
because I saved it there so you could
romp through it manually as well,
open the directories and
see what was written out.
If you're doing
simulator-based developments,
simulator has a documents
directory as well.
It's an incredibly long URL,
but there's a documents
directory there as well,
so you can see the results of all
your rights within the simulator.
You don't necessarily have to
have a native-based application
to take a look at that.
All right, so that's saving data locally.
Just ripping through the
last couple ones quickly.
Got some security services
available on iPhone.
First one I talked about in
the initial presentation,
in-house certificates,
as well as a lot of
the most common routes.
They're useful for
authentication and signing.
We have a keychain API on iPhone,
much like on the desktop
for Macintosh programmers.
Common crypto APIs,
so if you wanna do any sort of
unique random number grabbing,
SHA,
any sort of ad hoc encryption of content,
files, those kinds of things,
then you'd use the common crypto library.
And then we've got the
CF network framework.
It's a lower level network,
below NS network layer for TLS.
If you're doing any sort of secure
networking and you wanna get down
to the nuts and bolts at that level,
then CF network is the place to go.
I'm going to spend a little bit
of time on digital certificates
and keychain because these are
probably two of the most used by
in-house applications or soon to be.
So at the get-go we've got
support for routes like server
and identity certificates.
The most common are built-ins.
We've got over 132 sitting
within the keychain on iPhone,
basically the same set that you
would see on the Macintosh desktop
if you opened the keychain access
application and clicked on certificates.
Most common are built-ins.
So if you want to use them,
they're good to go.
They're stored in the keychain
so they're securely stored.
You can import your own certificates
if you're your own certificate
authority and you want to use
those certificates as part of
authentication for back-end resources.
You can import them via Safari.
Going to a secure web server,
users can import an in-house cert or
they can also be distributed to users
for use via an attachment in email.
And in the previous presentation
I also mentioned that the iPhone
configuration utility is a great way to
go and push via configuration profiles
certificates out to your users as well.
So we support in-house as well
as the most common routes already
within the keychain and you can use
them for doing all sorts of things.
So you can use them to
authenticate with the built-in app.
So Safari can use your in-house
certificate to authenticate to a
server sitting within your organization
that has your own certificate on
it instead of using a public route.
You can also,
since you have access to the keychain,
use certificates that you've deployed
through whatever mechanism as a
way of providing authentication
within your own application as well.
You've got access to that search
store so you can use the search
as part of your chain of trust
for communication to a back-end,
all sorts of things.
So certificate support, it's there.
Keychain support, so we've got a pretty
significant keychain API on the
desktop if you're used to it.
We've greatly simplified it.
The keychain provides support
for all sorts of storage of
information that's considered secure.
So things like cryptographic keys,
certificate information.
If you're going to collect any
sort of passwords from a user and
you want to store it for sessions,
then throw it in the keychain.
It's a secure way to go and store it.
It's encrypted.
You don't need to worry about it.
You don't need to worry about
it sitting out in the file
system or anything like that.
When you launch your application,
you can go and pull it
out of the keychain again.
It hasn't been tampered
with in any sort of way.
So if you're going to store passwords,
throw it in the keychain.
There's a shared keychain store,
basically one encrypted store
that all the passwords for all
applications are stored in.
But based on application signatures,
there's restricted access to basically
little slices of the keychain.
So application one has access
to applications one's keychain
or slice of the keychain.
Application one can only read
and write from a particular
portion of the keychain.
They can't necessarily read passwords,
certificates or any other
information that was written there
by another application unless,
of course, that other application has
the exact same signature.
So there is a mechanism for deploying
applications that have a little star
as part of their application signature.
If you deploy that way,
they... Then those applications that
conform to that signature protocol can
all share the same slice of the keychain.
And the documentation for doing
that is on the...I think it's
in the distribution tab of the
program portal on how to do that.
The secret is protected by hardware,
not password.
I mean,
this is interesting to folks that are
used to unlocking the keychain on a
Macintosh based on logging in and a
password associated with the keychain.
There aren't any prompts in
iPhone for access to the keychain.
People that are used to
the desktop experience,
if Safari wants to access the password
associated with a particular website,
you see a dialog that's
presented by Safari.
Hey, we want to go get your password
out of here so we can use
it for auto form complaint.
There isn't that kind of
implementation on iPhone.
The security associated with
the keychain on iPhone is all
about a hardware password.
There's something unique about
the hardware that's used to
go and lock the keychain.
Backup occurs, but it's tied to device.
So if you want to recover
a keychain onto a phone,
it'll only go back to the phone that
that particular keychain came from.
Since it's locked with something
unique about that device,
it would be useless anywhere else
anyway because it's encrypted
with that device secret.
So keychain APIs, there's four of them,
concise set of C functions,
sec item matching,
that's all about finding
something within the keychain.
I've stored a password there,
I wanna go and retrieve it now,
so I just ask the keychain using
this particular API to give me
back that password that I wanna
use based on whatever criteria.
Perhaps it's a name associated with
that particular password or a domain
associated with that password.
If I wanna add something to the keychain,
it's sec item add.
If I wanna update something
sitting within the keychain,
it's just one big array of data types.
I can update just one aspect of it,
I would use this particular API call.
And then finally,
if I wanna remove something
from the keychain,
I would use sec item delete.
The reason I've listed them here
is because it's a much smaller
set than what folks might be used
to if they're using the keychain
APIs on the Macintosh desktop.
SDK samples you might be interested in if
you're doing anything with the keychain,
generic keychain example,
throws stuff on,
pulls it off based on lookups, deletes,
those kinds of things.
And then the crypto exercise
example is particularly interesting,
especially if you want to do
any bulk encryption of content.
If you want to take a file and encrypt
it before you write it out to disk
or if it's sitting on disk and you
want it encrypted or decrypted or you
want to set up a secure communication
based on certificates between a
client application and the server,
that's a great example.
That crypto exercise application
is a great sample for getting
your hands around how that's done.
So that's security services.
Going to wrap it up with
deploying iPhone applications.
Should be pretty short.
Two different application architectures,
two different ways to go and deploy,
at least within these
particular architectures.
First, there's a web app deployment.
Everybody knows that, right?
Everybody knows how to
deploy a web application.
Pretty straightforward,
especially for a single one.
All you need to do is find a place to
go and host your particular web app,
poke a hole in the firewall,
pass out the URL to your customers,
your end users who are using it.
And once they've got it,
they'll create a home screen icon
so it stands right next to the
rest of the native applications
on their iPhone or iPod Touch.
One thing that you should
consider if you're deploying
multiple web-based applications is
coming up with an iPhone portal.
So basically one destination where users
would go and get all of their web-based
services through one particular URL.
It saves you having to open up
multiple ports in the firewall
or distributing multiple icons,
having multiple icons on the home screen.
And it's something that we've done
within Apple for our deployment
of web-based applications.
So in my sample here,
I've got the little single icon.
You tap on that to go to all
the Apple web-based services.
Since it's all coming through a portal,
all of these apps use the
same authentication mechanism.
If I authenticate
successfully to the system,
then I get in.
If I don't, then I'm blocked.
Once I get in,
then these are all just web-based
icons that are sitting within
my portal web-based application.
A great user experience because
basically all that session
information is leveraged.
Then the user goes and
taps on the various one,
whether it's the directory
app or something else,
launches it,
and the presentation is great.
So consider using a portal if
you're going to deploy more
than just one iPhone-based app.
It's a great shortcut.
From a native application
deployment perspective,
there's three different mechanisms
for deploying a native application.
The first one is enterprise.
Enterprise deployment are for folks
who are members of the enterprise
developer program at Apple,
so the iPhone enterprise
developer program.
It allows you to deploy unlimited
applications to unlimited devices.
There's no tie between a device ID and
the application that you're distributing.
It's unlimited.
The only real caveat is that you can only
deploy to members of your own enterprise.
It's not a deployment mechanism
that allows you to deploy
outside of your enterprise.
It's for in-house applications.
It's for in-house application
distribution only to folks who are
part of your enterprise organization.
So that's enterprise distribution.
There's ad hoc application distribution.
Ad hoc is all about tying the
capability of a particular application
to run on very specific known devices.
So there's a set of iPod
Touches or iPhones that I want
my application to run on,
and none other than I'm
doing an ad hoc deployment.
And then finally,
you know what you love it.
It's the App Store deployment, right?
It's all about pushing it up,
and this is for commercial
and free applications.
So these are the three
mechanisms of deployment.
The ones that are most important
to in-house developers are
typically the enterprise and
ad hoc distribution methods.
Although there's a lot of
enterprises that are commercial
application developers as well,
so typically they'll have an
App Store account as well.
And they'll use that for deploying
to customers that are folks
outside of their organization.
So enterprise and ad hoc deployment,
the process is build, authorize,
deploy and install.
There is no over the air capability
for deploying in-house applications
for doing iPhone enterprise
application development or ad hoc.
Only the app store mechanism is
the way to get it over the air.
In order to go and deploy an
application that's ad hoc or enterprise,
first thing I need to do is to sign,
create a signed distribution
build of my native application.
Then I need to interact with
the program portal at Apple,
so sign in.
Perhaps I'm doing an ad hoc distribution,
so I need to select the device
IDs of the devices that I want
my application to run on.
As a result of interacting
with the portal,
I'll get back a distribution
provisioning profile.
If I want to do an enterprise deployment,
I would still go through
this same process,
but I would not select devices
and tie that particular
distribution to those devices.
I'd say, no,
I don't choose the radio box that says
I want to do an enterprise deployment,
and then the need to select
device IDs goes away.
So as a result of
interacting with the portal,
you'll get a distribution
provisioning profile.
It's signed by us to make sure
that it's not monkeyed with.
Once you've got that provisioning profile
and your signed application in hand,
it's time to go and deploy it.
And you can deploy it in any
mechanism that you want to do,
as long as it gets it to the desktop of
the user that needs to have it installed.
So you can use the
application to deploy it.
So you can use email.
You can push it through
any sort of mechanism.
You can use a thumb drive,
whatever it takes to get it out there,
but it's got to land on the desktop.
You can't push it to the email
of a client on the iPhone.
It's got to land onto a desktop.
The reason it's got to land on
the desktop is because the only
way to go and install in-house
applications is via iTunes.
So the way you install applications
with iTunes is you drag and drop
them on top of the icon for iTunes,
either on a Windows machine
or on a Macintosh.
If iTunes is already running,
I can drag both of them into the
library section of iTunes as well.
There's the iPhone Configuration
Utility which I talked about
in the previous presentation.
It's got the capability of adding
provision profiles as well as apps.
So if you're an IT organization and
you want to prep a bunch of iPhones
before you give them to developers,
you can use that tool
to do the same thing.
Once they're there,
once the user clicks their
phone in and synchronizes,
the in-house application is
pushed over to their device.
They're good to go.
App Store Deployment,
a lot simpler than that, right?
All you need to do is still
create a distribution signed
build of your application.
The next step is you push it up to
the iTunes Connect portal and then
we take care of the distribution to
the App Store either on iTunes on the
desktop or the App Store application
on the mobile device.
So that's the application
distribution mechanism.
And that's it from a
presentation perspective.
I've got some links here at the end.
Links to the iPhone
configuration utility,
developer documentation.
I mentioned some CSS effect public
specification is out there at webkit.org.
Interesting Ruby library that I use for
generating SVG graphics if you're into
SVG and trying to figure out how you're
going to go and generate some of those,
that's pretty interesting.
And my email is at the top so if
you've got any sort of headaches
or things that you're running
into as part of your deployment,
building,
any of the process associated with
in-house application development,
please keep in touch.